# List of available commands

This page was generated by `bashfiles markdown > ~/.github/commands.md`

## [Binaries](../.local/bin/)

- [bashfiles](../.local/bin/bashfiles) - Manage Bash files from dotfiles repository.
- [bashgen](../.local/bin/bashgen) - Generate new Bash script using itself as a template.
- [clipbrd](../.local/bin/clipbrd) - Access clipboard contents.
- [confirm](../.local/bin/confirm) - Aks user for confirmation.
- [direnc](../.local/bin/direnc) - List or (un)mount encrypted directories. Simple encfs frontend.
- [dirsync](../.local/bin/dirsync) - Synchronize two directories. Simple rsync frontend.
- [dirtree](../.local/bin/dirtree) - List contents of a directory as tree. Bash implementation of tree command.
- [disks](../.local/bin/disks) - List or (un)mount disks. Simple lsblk and udisksctl frontend.
- [extract](../.local/bin/extract) - Extract or list contents of an archive in nearly any format.
- [findex](../.local/bin/findex) - Find wrapper with extra capabilities.
- [findprj](../.local/bin/findprj) - Find root directories of software projects.
- [findup](../.local/bin/findup) - Find upwards in directory tree.
- [git-authors](../.local/bin/git-authors) - List authors and number of their Git commits.
- [git-cmp-branches](../.local/bin/git-cmp-branches) - Compare two Git branches.
- [git-fast-forward](../.local/bin/git-fast-forward) - Fast-forward local Git branches.
- [git-gone-branches](../.local/bin/git-gone-branches) - List or delete local Git branches that are gone on remote.
- [git-ls-branches](../.local/bin/git-ls-branches) - List Git branches in machine-readable format.
- [git-state](../.local/bin/git-state) - Print state of a Git working tree.
- [git-super-status](../.local/bin/git-super-status) - Git status on steroids.
- [guitask](../.local/bin/guitask) - Show GUI progress dialog for a command.
- [homefiles](../.local/bin/homefiles) - Initialize home directory structure.
- [choose](../.local/bin/choose) - Let user choose from values. Simple fzf frontend with Bash fallback.
- [jestat](../.local/bin/jestat) - Print statistics of Java exceptions in a log file.
- [mpdm3u](../.local/bin/mpdm3u) - Generate M3U playlists from MPD database.
- [mvnpgb](../.local/bin/mvnpgb) - Print property of a Maven project in Git branches.
- [mvnsv](../.local/bin/mvnsv) - Set version of a Maven project.
- [npmr](../.local/bin/npmr) - List or (silently) run scripts of a npm package.
- [open](../.local/bin/open) - Open file or URL in the user's preferred application.
- [pacfind](../.local/bin/pacfind) - Find ArchLinux packages. Simple pacman frontend wit AUR support.
- [refresh](../.local/bin/refresh) - Periodically refresh output of a command on change.
- [slice](../.local/bin/slice) - Get slice of input. Simple head/tail frontend.
- [sshctl](../.local/bin/sshctl) - Control ssh-agent process.
- [sshgen](../.local/bin/sshgen) - Generate SSH key with user-friendly CLI wizard.
- [trim](../.local/bin/trim) - Trim input lines.
- [wman](../.local/bin/wman) - Open online man pages in web browser.
- [xpipe](../.local/bin/xpipe) - Execute command on a file constructed from standard input.
- [yodl](../.local/bin/yodl) - Simple youtube-dl frontend.

## [Aliases](../.bashrc.d/)

### [10-bash.sh](../.bashrc.d/10-bash.sh)

- `bashreload` - Reload .profile and .bashrc

### [30-cd.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-cd.sh)

- `cdbak` - Change directory to $BACKUP_DIR
- `cdbin` - Change directory to $LOCAL_BIN_DIR
- `cdcach` - Change directory to $CACHE_DIR
- `cdconf` - Change directory to $CONF_DIR
- `cddat` - Change directory to $LOCAL_SHARE_DIR
- `cddesk` - Change directory to $DESKTOP_DIR
- `cddoc` - Change directory to $DOCUMENTS_DIR
- `cddown` - Change directory to $DOWNLOAD_DIR
- `cdlib` - Change directory to $LOCAL_LIB_DIR
- `cdmed` - Change directory to $MEDIA_DIR
- `cdmus` - Change directory to $MUSIC_DIR
- `cdpic` - Change directory to $PICTURES_DIR
- `cdplay` - Change directory to $PLAYLISTS_DIR
- `cdpub` - Change directory to $PUBLIC_DIR
- `cdtmp` - Change directory to $TEMP_DIR
- `cdvid` - Change directory to $VIDEOS_DIR
- `cdvol` - Change directory to $VOLUMES_DIR
- `cdwork` - Change directory to $WORKSPACE_DIR
- `cdsave` - Save current working directory
- `cdload` - Restore current working directory
- `cdfzf` - Change directory to a fzf search result
- `cdfzfsrc` - Change directory to a fzf search result (source files only)
- `cdprj` - Change directory to a workspace project search result
- `cdmvndir` - Change directory to a Maven project search result
- `cdmvnroot` - Change directory to a Maven project root
- `cdnpmdir` - Change directory to a NodeJS project search result
- `cdnpmroot` - Change directory to a NodeJS project root

### [30-cut.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-cut.sh)

- `termfit` - Cut lines to fit terminal width

### [30-find.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-find.sh)

- `findsrc` - Find between source files

### [30-grep.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-grep.sh)

- `egrep` - Grep with extend regex pattern
- `fgrep` - Grep with fixed string pattern
- `pgrep` - Grep with Perl regex patern

### [30-iconv.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-iconv.sh)

- `win1250-utf8` - Convert Windows-1250 to UTF-8
- `utf8-win1250` - Convert UTF-8 to Windows-1250
- `utf8-win1250-i` - Convert UTF-8 to Windows-1250 (ignore unknown characters)
- `utf8-win1250-t` - Convert UTF-8 to Windows-1250 (with transliteration)
- `iso88592-utf8` - Convert ISO-88592 to UTF-8
- `utf8-iso88592` - Convert UTF-8 to ISO-88592

### [30-ls.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-ls.sh)

- `la` - List files including hidden ones
- `ll` - List files in long format
- `lla` - List files in long format, including hidden ones

### [30-mkdir.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-mkdir.sh)

- `mkdirp` - Make directory including its parent

### [30-rm.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-rm.sh)

- `rmrf` - Remove files with recursion and force

### [30-sort.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-sort.sh)

- `sortu` - Sort lines, output unique results

### [30-wcl.sh](../.bashrc.d/30-wcl.sh)

- `wcb` - Count input bytes
- `wcch` - Count input characters
- `wcw` - Count input words
- `wcl` - Count input lines

### [40-ip.sh](../.bashrc.d/40-ip.sh)

- `ip4` - Print network devices with IPv4 address
- `ip4u` - Print IPv4 addresses of active network devices
- `ip6` - Print network devices with IPv6 address
- `iplink` - Print network devices with MAC address

### [50-adb.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-adb.sh)

- `rndebug` - Open React Native debug menu using adb

### [50-docker.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-docker.sh)

- `doco` - Docker container operations
- `doim` - Docker image operations
- `dovo` - Docker volume operations
- `doex` - Execute command in a docker container
- `doba` - Start Bash in a docker container

### [50-fzf.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-fzf.sh)

- `fzfls` - Fzf with directory contents preview
- `fzfpacman` - Fzf for pacman package selection
- `fzfpacaur` - Fzf for pacaur package selection

### [50-git.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-git.sh)

- `gitcb` - Select and checkout Git branch
- `gitct` - Select and checkout Git tag
- `gitcmpb` - Select and compare Git branches
- `gitdb` - Select and delete Git branch
- `gitdbf` - Select and delete Git branch (with force)
- `gitffb` - Select and fast-forward Git branch
- `gitmb` - Select and merge Git branch
- `gitrb` - Select and rease Git branch

### [50-http.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-http.sh)

- `hs` - Start http server
- `hsdev` - Start http server (no cache) and open browser

### [50-mvn.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-mvn.sh)

- `mvni` - Maven install
- `mvnist` - Maven install (skip tests)
- `mvnci` - Maven clean and install
- `mvncist` - Maven clean and install (skip tests)
- `mvndeps` - Maven dependency tree
- `mvnprgb` - Print maven property for each remote Git branch

### [50-npm.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-npm.sh)

- `npmd` - Start npm development script
- `npmg` - Npm in global mode
- `npmgi` - Npm install (global mode)
- `npmgi` - Npm update (global mode)
- `npmgun` - Npm uninstall (global mode)
- `npmgl` - List globaly installed npm packages
- `npmi` - Npm install
- `npmii` - Npm install (with node_modules removal)
- `npmup` - Npm update
- `npmun` - Npm uninstall
- `npml` - List installed npm packages

### [50-pacman.sh](../.bashrc.d/50-pacman.sh)

- `paci` - Select packages to install using pacman/pacaur
- `pacii` - Select packages to install using pacman/pacaur (with refresh)
- `pacun` - Select packages to uninstall using pacman/pacaur
- `pacup` - Pacman/pacaur system upgrade

### [60-backup.sh](../.bashrc.d/60-backup.sh)

- `bakmusiclist` - Backup list of albums in music directory

### [60-clipbrd.sh](../.bashrc.d/60-clipbrd.sh)

- `clipget` - Set clipboard contents
- `clipset` - Get clipboard contents

### [60-dotfiles.sh](../.bashrc.d/60-dotfiles.sh)

- `dotenv` - Execute command with Git dotfiles environment
- `dotfiles` - Git for dotfiles
- `dotcode` - Visual studio code for dotfiles

### [60-edit.sh](../.bashrc.d/60-edit.sh)

- `edit` - Open file with $EDITOR
- `editpipe` - Read pipe with $EDITOR

### [60-ssh.sh](../.bashrc.d/60-ssh.sh)

- `sshi` - Start SSH agent
- `sshk` - Kill SSH agent
- `ssha` - Select and add load SSH key
- `sshl` - List loaded SSH keys
